you may not know his name but my own
Burrell's 17-year old case has become a
national storyline in the presidential
election it is now under scrutiny after
senator Amy Klobuchar initially took
credit for making sure the killer of
eleven-year-old Taisha Edwards was put
behind bars after a year-long
investigation The Associated Press says
the case was flawed my on just 16 years
old at the time has maintained his
innocence and so we went to the
Minnesota Correctional Facility
Stillwater in Minneapolis to hear from
my on firsthand explosive excerpts from
the interrogation video in the
controversial case of my own Burrell his
arrest and conviction is one senator Amy
Klobuchar has brought back into the
public consciousness initially wearing
it as a badge of honor as it relates to
her tough-on-crime reputation and her
efforts to bring justice for shooting
victims in the african-american
community my job is to hold people
accountable when they break the law but
here in her state of Minnesota an ugly
scar exposed and time-tested lingering
like an open wound a constant reminder
of the gaping hole a stray bullet left
in this community back in November of
2002 after penetrated this home across
the street inside an 11-year old little
girl named Aisha Edwards during her
homework at the dining room table and I
ran inside called 9-1-1
I didn't know if I should do CPR now I
just knew she was laying on floor and
then when they throw around she just
passed away outrage erupted in the black
community with mounting pressure on the
police department to find her killer it
wasn't a love year-old girl that was hit
with a stray bullet right and so there
was a lot of concern in the community
that justice was served the killing was
so senseless
so I think it had reached a point at
that time where you know there just
needed to be justice and there needs to
be fast justice four days after ty
asia's death police said they tracked
down her killer 16 year old gang member
meiyan Burrell fired a gunshot into
their home a bullet hit Taisha in the
chest that was 17 years ago
to this day my on Burrell now almost 34
years old says he didn't do it my own a
lot of people say that they're innocent
why should people believe you I've
always let people know that I was
innocent it's just now that I have a
voice but it's not about what I tell
people to make them believe but what
people can see for themselves you know I
mean like going look into it and then
you tell me if you believe now I'm
innocent that's exactly what Robin
McDowell Pulitzer prize-winning reporter
did as part of an Associated Press
year-long investigation why do you
believe my on well I didn't go into the
investigation thinking he was innocent
for sure I did believe that when a lot
of inmates friends and rivals were
saying that they believed he was
innocent that he was worth looking into
just last month the AP released an
article concluding the case was flawed
citing inconsistencies in the police
investigation that led to my on being
jailed for life I started getting the
police reports getting the court
transcripts from the first and second
trial and just went through and looked
for inconsistencies and started kind of
just hitting the pavement and talking to
you know everyone I could talk to
among those she talked to I Tyson who
said for years that he was the killer
not my own
it's like it's a hold another burden to
carry after what I've already had done
are ready to the shot an innocent girl
now innocent
guys at the time he was a kid his locked
up for something I was like without a
gun fingerprints or DNA the case against
my on largely relied on testimony from a
teen rival who changed his story several
times about who he said he saw at the
crime scene
he has since died the investigation
questioned police tactics caught on
camera I just need some names of who was
across that street
I just signed out $1,000 about two hours
ago and where an investigator offers
$500 for names of potential suspects
even for hearsay from someone who said
he knew nothing about the crime and
while this video has only recently
surfaced my own belief surveillance
video may have existed that could have
exonerated him but police never pursued
it the surveillance video from this
convenience store cut foods where my own
says he was at the time of the shooting
that's his alibi wouldn't it have been
just as simple as finding the
surveillance video at Cupp convenience
store it should have been especially
when he said during his interrogation go
get the tapes like there is no excuse in
my mind at that point to not go pick up
the surveillance tapes or to go talk to
the alibi he specifically gives the name
of a girl says I was with her go talk to
her yet nobody never goes talk to her so
those are two really kind of clear
open-and-shut things to me if you're
looking to at both sides of the
investigation not just to find it was
guilty but to see if someone's innocent
you're going to look at you're going to
look investigate both sides and you went
to find that tape and what were you told
I was told they didn't remember but they
definitely had surveillance cameras up
at that time many of them maybe like a
month a month into me being housed in
the dirt being incarcerated being locked
up you know my mom she ended up passing
away she end up dying in a car accident
from leaving from visiting me and as a
16 year old child it was so devastating
and I was in a place where it was nobody
but me so that kind of took over my
state of mind I really stopped asking
questions to my attorney at that point
and I all the way until I went to trial
I believed that they had those tapes and
so then when I went to trial and he
never presented him/her they never it
was just like you know
I didn't really know how to take it in
May of 2003 the jury convicted my own of
first-degree murder for more than half
of his life now this has been home for
mile you could have taken a plea deal if
you had you'd be out already
yeah why haven't you why me
so it hurts to know they did you
it hurts to know that you could be out
right now but I could put in a pill and
say hey listen give me less time and let
me out right now but then I will be
taking responsibility for a crime that I
didn't commit and I could never do that
in 2005 two years after he was found
guilty the Minnesota Supreme Court
overturned my ons conviction that was a
Miranda rights violations he got my on
when my own was being interrogated he
was asking for his mother and he asked
for his he has to talk to his mother
asked if he could see his mother 13
times and that was denied again and
again after the third time of asking he
was read his Miranda he was only 16 at
the time but was charged as an adult the
court ruled the denial of his mother
along with about a half-dozen other
errors during trial warranted the
overturn but the head prosecutor at that
time Hennepin County Attorney Amy
Klobuchar immediately vowed to retry my
on and in 2006 offered this
justification for why my own wasn't
allowed to see his mother
the police didn't want him to be able to
compare notes to be able to fabricate an
alibi Burrell was tried again and found
guilty by a judge in 2008 a conviction
that has been upheld on appeal by the
time of his trial Klobuchar had left the
prosecutor's office for the US Senate
Amy Klobuchar are the same district
attorney charging knowledge not only
once but even after my conviction was
overturned
she recharged me she reached out to me
with first-degree murder
never looked into the facts of the case
never even addressed the misconduct they
had taken place and still put the same
detective the same police on my case
took to go and get more bogus evidence
so do you hold Amy Klobuchar responsible
yes personally I feel like she is the
source of everything that happened with
her charging me you never took the time
to look into this case you never took
the time to go in hi Cici is this true
or is this false and when she did that I
believe that she gave the police free
rein and said just bring me back in a
conviction secure me a conviction and
that's what they did by any means
necessary
her response has been look he's been
tried twice he's been convicted
the second time I didn't have anything
to do with that she charged me both
times she didn't try me she didn't even
try me the first time she just played a
big part in securing a conviction by
getting on TV every time I went to court
or any time something took place she
went on TV or she went in a pet
newspaper and said this is what she's
gonna do to me the case of Tanisha
Edwards is won Klobuchar has touted as a
success again and again in her book the
senator next door and in 2006 during her
campaign for the US Senate
showing how she got justice for
african-american victims of violence and
a little girl
Taisha was murdered Amy saw to it that
those gang members were put away
Minnesota's police have also endorsed
Amy Klobuchar our trust their work she
even brought it up just this past
September on the debate stage as a
candidate for president of the United
States the ACL u--'s legal director in
minnesota has said that you showed no
interest in racial justice
do you wish now that you had done more
that's not my record the cases that came
to us African American community that
came to us they said there was no
justice for their little kids there was
a kid named Byron Phillips that was shot
on his front porch no one had bothered
to figure out who did it when I came
into that office we worked with the
community groups we put up billboards we
found the shooter and we put him in jail
we did the same for the killer of a
little girl named Aisha Edwards who was
doing her homework at her kitchen table
and was shot through the window which I
think that's the main point about my on
in particular right like if you are
going to hold this up as an example and
something to be proud of then this is
really a bad example and this is a
nightmare of an example of all the cases
I've looked at and have been interested
Mayon is the one that to me is the most
clear-cut but there are others and I may
have focused on someone else if she
hadn't been waving that flag amy
klobuchar as the Hennepin County
Attorney should have protected the
rights of this juvenile and treated him
with dignity and respect rather than
acting as if he was disposable as a
result of the AAP investigation just
last month a group of civil rights
advocates including members of black
lives matter
cities called for the senator to suspend
her campaign for president you have
wrongs that needs to be right the head
of the Minneapolis n-double-a-cp says
justice was not served 17 years of a
lifetime sentence in prison for a crime
that he did not commit
how are you so convinced I'm so
convinced because there was no evidence
to convict him in the first place there
was no gun there was no DNA he has a
solid alibi of being at cup school the
alibis have come forward it was really
based off of a rival gang member who
basically said that he was the one who
did it and even if there's doubt and
there's not certainty I think that it's
enough that we at least go back and
review it Amy Klobuchar you have
questions that need to be answered
how culpable do you think Amy Klobuchar
is when it comes to my own Burrell I
think that she was the lead prosecutor
at the time I believe that she utilized
this case to advance her political
career both as a senator and now during
her presidential campaign and I think
that she owes it every day that's going
by is a life loss as potential loss is
my own life going down the drain his
time he could be spending with his
family his time he because he's spending
in life and so Amy Klobuchar has a great
debt to pay in recent weeks senator
Klobuchar has faced tough questions I
didn't know about this new evidence how
do you defend something like that to
someone like me who's the mother of a
black boy a black teenager this case
all of the evidence needs to be
immediately reviewed in that case well I
wasn't aware of that information the new
information the senator grilled again at
last week's debate why should black and
Latino voters trust your judgment now if
it appears you may have gotten it wrong
then first I'll start with that case it
is very clear that any evidence if there
is new evidence even old evidence it
should be reviewed by that office and by
the county attorney that must happen I
have called for that review this was a
case involving an 11 year old
african-american girl named Aisha
Edwards
who was shot doing her homework at her
kitchen table three people were
convicted one of the cases is the one
that is being investigated was
investigated by a journalist and I think
it's very important but that that
evidence come forward in fairness Amy
Klobuchar has called for any new
evidence in this case to be examined is
that not enough it's not enough Amy
Klobuchar again I will reiterate it's a
very powerful woman in the state of
Minnesota as the senator through all her
relationships through previously being
in that role and if she wanted it to be
open I believe it would but in a
statement to ABC News current had a pin
counting attorney Michael Freeman
strongly disputes Burrell's claims of
innocence saying he's been convicted
twice for the murder and they say the
case is being unfairly politicized
because of Klobuchar his prior
involvement and they point out that she
was no longer working in their County
office during the second trial the
prosecutor's office claims Burrell's
alibi has changed three times during and
since his trials he confessed his
involvement to a cousin and a jail
informant it was common practice for
police to offer cash rewards in unsolved
cases and that it's not unusual to not
find a weapon or DNA evidence the office
also provided a video statement we focus
on facts mr. Burrell is represented by
an attorney and we have been working
with that attorney for a year if his
legal team presents us with new evidence
we will review it so far that has not
happened
and the only facts are from mr.
Burrell's trial a dozen years ago for my
on a review can't come soon enough
I lost my childhood in this place I've
been in here since I was a teen all of
my 20s my thirties I'll be 34 years old
in the next next month
you know I mean so it's like I'll never
be able to get that back but if it was a
real mistake you speak out against a
mistake that you made you try to correct
it so I don't think that it was really
like anything personal against me I
think that it was more so for them to
put out that their that they're doing
their job or that they secure conviction
so you think you were just as much of an
unintended target as Taisha well that's
exactly how I feel that's exactly how I
feel so to me it's an injustice all the
way around the board for one they didn't
actually give Taisha or her family
justice by pursuing the truth what would
be the incentive for police to knowingly
put the wrong guy behind bars personally
I don't believe that it was a a plot to
as like I've been debtor or something
against me personally I believe that
they just wanted to to put out to the
public that they had found somebody took
it they committed this crime but my own
says the renewed attention on his case
gives him hope you know when that ap
when an AP piece came out
and I was able to see it I cry
because all of these years I've been in
here and I've been screaming I've been
telling people that I'm innocent I'm not
supposed to be here but my voice was
never heard and they gave me a voice and
not just from what I was telling them
but from what they found themselves and
so if you want to if you want to know
the truth then go and find it you're so
like it's right there in his mind
Mayon has already been vindicated all
the rest of him remains very much
incarcerated 17 years later evidence of
the gun fire that once consumed this
community and is now ricocheted around
the country still remains and it doesn't
appear to be going away anytime soon
we requested an interview with senator
Klobuchar to discuss the case and
provided a list of questions in response
the Klobuchar campaign provided the
following statement saying quote as I've
said before this case should be reviewed
immediately this was about an 11 year
old girl Taisha edwards who was killed
while she was sitting at her kitchen
table doing her homework and as a
prosecutor our job is to convict the
guilty and protect the innocent so if
any evidence was not put forward or was
not appropriately investigated or if new
evidence has emerged that should have
been discovered at the time it must be
reviewed when I was County Attorney I
worked with the Innocence Project to
advocate for better eyewitness
identification procedures and for the
widespread use of videotaped
interrogations with the goals of
reducing wrongful convictions and
increasing accountability in the county
attorney's office we work to go back and
review all the major cases that involve
DNA evidence and to reform the
procedures for eyewitness identification
I have been and always will be on the
side of justice my Ahn's defense team
tells us that they have gathered new
evidence and hoped to sit down and
discuss the case with the Hennepin
County Attorney's Office soon and just a
final note on this of course it is not
lost on us that an 11 year old little
girl is no longer with us
Taisha Edwards who her family says had
hoped to be an attorney our thoughts are
with her family
hi everyone George Stephanopoulos here
thanks for checking out the ABC News
youtube channel if you'd like to get
more videos show highlights and watch
live event coverage click on the right
over here
subscribe to our Channel and don't
forget to download the ABC News app for
breaking news alerts thanks for watching